Popular events like the Football World Cup and other international sporting occasions are essential in easing international tension  and releasing patriotic emotions in a safe way.
Every four years, the whole world stops to watch international sporting events such as the Olympics and the Football World Cup in which athletes show their best performance to make their country proud. These sporting occasions have proved to be helpful in easing international tension in difficult times when powerful leaders were trying to control the world’s economy and other governments were fighting over the land.

The Olympic Games are one of the best examples which prove how sporting events can bring nations together, at least temporarily. From the ancient History, when Greeks and Romans would interrupt battles to participate in the games, to the more recent international disputes, when athletes from Palestine and Israel would forget their differences, compete peacefully and even embrace each other after an event. Moreover, these popular events have called the world’s attention to the terrible consequences of wars; thus some leaders have tried to reach agreements to end their disputes and live peacefully.
Similarly, international sporting events show benefits in some developing countries which live in a daily internal civil war. For example, Brazil has a high rate of unemployment, lack of education, hunger, crime, poverty and corruption which leads to an immense embarrassment of being Brazilian and a low self-esteem. However, when the Football World Cup starts, the Brazilian squad, which is considered the best team in the world, provokes an amazing feeling of pride in their country. Most people seem to forget all their problems and even the criminal activity decreases. They paint roads with the national colors, wear the Brazilian team shirts and buy national flags. Moreover, the competition brings families and neighbors together and even rival gangs watch the games and celebrate peacefully.
In conclusion, popular sporting events play an important role in decreasing international tensions and liberating patriotic feelings as history has shown.
This is a great essay, the ideas, language, structure of paragraphs and sentences, and your grammar show a good command of the English language. In my opinion it is Band 8. Keep up the good work.

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
which type of essay is that one please?
This would be an Argument (agree/disagree) essay type.
Hi Is it possible to submit my essay on this topic and get an approximate band score?
Certainly! All you need to do is visit this page to read how to use our writing correction service, get yourself a package and start submitting your writing.
Hi.
 Is it possible to send my essay for correction?
Yes, of course – please read how our writing correction service works, and how you can submit your essay, letter or report and get teacher’s feedback and an estimated score.
Did u gave ur ielts exam?
Hi
I am weak in english but i need 7 band. Please tell how I am reach that score . Which things  i do to  get 7 band. I used normal words during writing. Please help me.
Hello Mam Please evaluate my EssaY
Healthy lifestyle of a person is the major aspect of longevity. So, it is widely acknowledged by some that for individuals health, some incisive rules must be implemented by government. however, a school of thought is that it must be responsibility of Masses. I personally think that healthy lifestyle should be liability of individuals.
At the outset, it is well- known fact that government measure will not be effective, until people will not take initiatives for their healthy life. They should keep away themselves from bad things. To be more precise, there are myriads of conspicuous product’s : alcohol, drugs and smoking, have obvious effect on the person’s health. Therefore, they need to restrain themselves from the consumption of harmful things. For example, as per the report by BBc news, every year, millions of people die as a result of excessive drug and alcohol consumption. Consequently, its mankind liability to steps for well being lifestyle.
However, to some, authorities can pass  stringent regulations for public health. This can be possible, if street foods such as, Burger, pizza are completely alleviated by government. For example, obesity and stomach ache have been increasingly common in the society just because of junk food. Secondly and predominantly, spreading awareness among the people by dint of social media that it is really vital to have good health. In other words, this will captivate more more people to do some vigorous exercise. Subsequently, government measures seem to be beneficial for public health.
To conclude, it is clear from aforementioned paragraphs that though myriad of step’s by government seem greatly beneficial for masses well being health : strict action for production of junk food, but in my opinion, its individual responsible to limit bad habits, for example, consumption of alcohol
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
