Some say that rich countries should help poor countries with trade, health and education. Do you agree or disagree? Give reasons for your answer and include examples from your experience.
Improvements in health, education and trade are essential for the development of poorer nations. Some say that the governments of richer nations should take more responsibility for helping the poorer nations in such areas. In my opinion, the aid of wealthy countries is imperative to fight poverty in developing nations. 
Today’s world has been divided into developing and industrialised countries  the main difference between them is the amount of money that governments apply in important sectors such as education, health and commerce. Most of the poorer nations are buried in debts as a result of their unbalanced finances which  in a  health care,  an unstructured education system and a weak international trade. This vicious cycle will continue indefinitely unless wealthier nations show interest in minimizing the worldwide economic differences, as well as taking more responsibility for assisting less fortunate countries.

Most of the African countries live in  conditions because of the extreme poverty, upheaval, hunger, disease, unemployment, lack of education and both inexperienced and corrupt administrations. The devastating consequences of  the AIDS epidemic in those countries could improve if the infected population were to receive free drugs to control the disease, have access to health professionals and get information on how to prevent its spread. But this can only be achieved through international help programs in which leaders of the world’s richest countries donate medicine and also send doctors and nurses to treat and educate those in need.
Moreover, most of the poor countries rely on selling agricultural products and raw materials to rich nations and buying industrialized products from them  in a huge financial deficit. Consequently, they borrow a significant amount of money from the World Bank to try to improve their broken economies, but sometimes the money disappears with no significant changes and they cannot even pay the interest to the bank. Recognising this as an issue that wealthy countries can resolve, last year the G8, which is comprised of leaders of the eight richest nations, decided to forgive billions of dollars worth of debt owed by the world’s poorest nations. In addition, they developed adequate loan programs to financially assist those countries.
In conclusion, leaders of the  countries play an indispensable role in assisting developing nations in dealing with essential areas such as health, education and trade. Their aid is the key to breaking the vicious cycle poorer countries are locked in, which results in poverty and death.
This is a great essay, seems to be on a Band 8 level, there’s nothing to improve here.

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
Excellent Job
the subject is stating that the richest country should help in terms of food and education. Education is explained through knowledge sharing but how about food.
Inhumane condition maybe?
Both words “inhuman” and “inhumane” are suitable in the context of that sentence.
Nyc material
Hello
The spelling of “industrialised”
has been changed to “industrialized”. However, both versions are correct.
Thanks for the comment! You are right, both versions are correct. The issue here is choosing ONE WAY to spell, British or American, and sticking to it. So, for example, in this essay the word ‘industrialised’ has the British spelling in one instance, and the American spelling (‘industrialized’) in another instance. The word “minimized” has the American spelling, and as you can see the writer mixes these two ways to spell words. It is advisable to choose one way and be consistent about it.
Nice work 🙂
I am curious about why always use \”poorer\” instead of poor ?
It is done to soften the contrast, as the word ‘poorer’ is making a comparison to ‘wealthier’ nations without labeling a group of countries as ‘poor’ (which would sound quite negative).
Really nice essay and beneficial
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
