In many countries around the world young people decide to leave their parents’ home once they finish school. They start living on their own or sharing a house with friends. Is this a positive or a negative development? Give reasons for your answer and include relevant examples.
Sample Essay
Nowadays it is becoming increasingly common for youngsters to start their independent life by moving out of their parents’ home after graduation from school. This trend has positive effects on the society and the reasons behind it will be discussed next in this essay. 
There are various benefits for both young people and their parents when individuals start living independently after finishing school. Young adults, in this way, have to take care of their daily needs, from house chores, cooking or cleaning to financial independence. Thus, instead of wasting time on childish activities, they are motivated to learn skills and work part-time or full-time in order to cover their living expenses. Although it might seem challenging for them to live on their own at first, it would give them valuable experience, helping them to become mature, responsible adults. Parents would also be pleased with this practice since they can enjoy their own lives by having more time for themselves. Not only would they have more financial flexibility due to independence of their children, but they also don’t have to change their habits in order to adapt to the new generation’s lifestyle. For instance, it allows many people to travel around the world, which would be impossible if their children were to stay with them after finishing high school.
Admittedly, there might be some challenges involved in this way of life. In some cases and especially under the influence of new friends or housemates, youngsters might choose to get involved in dangerous activities that involve drugs or petty crimes. However, instead of keeping their children close through adulthood, parents should prepare in advance and raise their children to distinguish between right and wrong and teach them to take responsibility for their actions.
In conclusion, although there might be some adverse consequences to this relatively new practice, I believe that the advantages of young people leaving family home outweigh its drawbacks, for both children and parents. 
