As computers are being used more and more in education, there will be soon no role for teachers in the classroom. Do you agree or disagree?
There is no doubt that education and the process of learning has changed since the introduction of computers. The search for information has become easier and more entertaining, and connectivity has expedited the availability of data. Though   systems have made computers more intelligent, they have not yet become a substitute for the human interaction in the learning process. In my opinion, what can be expected is a change in the teachers’ role, but not their disappearance from the classroom.
Nobody can argue with the fact that the acquisition of knowledge is more fun and easier with computers. The mere activity of touching and exploring this device constitutes an enjoyable task for a child. This, accompanied by a relaxing attitude and interactivity of software, usually contributes to a better grasping of new knowledge. At a higher educational level the availability of digital books, simulators and other academic materials provides the student with an ever accessible source of information, that otherwise would not be at hand.
But, besides the increasing complexity and behavior of intelligent software, which is usually embedded in the academic digital material, the need for human interaction in the learning process will always be present, at least in the foreseeable future. There is the necessity for a human being to be able to determine what the   needs of each individual are. The expertise of a teacher in how to explain and adapt complex concepts to different individuals can hardly be mimicked by a computer, no matter how sophisticated its software is.
As computers are becoming a common tool for teaching, teachers should be more aware of their role as guides in the acquisition of knowledge rather than transmitters of facts. They have to be receptive to the changes that are taking , keep updated and serve as problem solvers in the learning process, thus allowing students to discover the  for themselves.
To summarize, in my personal view, teachers play and will continue to play an important role in the classroom, especially at the primary school level. No matter how capable computers become, there will be no replacement for human interaction, but in the  interaction takes place.
This is an excellent essay! Are you a native English speaker? Well done. The only problem is that this essay is too long, 365 words instead of 250-265 maximum.
Suggest any website or app for improving vocab
hi, why there are 3 body paragraph in writing sample. please let me know🙏
There can be two or three body paragraphs in a good IELTS essay, so that is not a problem.
There can be two or three body paragraphs in a good  IELTS essay
Yes, you can have two or three body paragraphs, that’s fine.
I want to all  section pdf
This is a good way to teach others people and this lesson gives the confidence and get the desired bands thanks
That’s very kind of you to say, thanks Faisal!
I got only6.5 in writting.
Tell me how can i  improve my writing.
Hi Harpinder, to get personalised feedback on your writing, you can visit this page and buy a writing correction package, to send our teachers your writing for correction. They will suggest what you should change in the way you write, to start scoring higher.
Is it wrong if I take four paragraphs to write essay with introduction, advantages, disadvantage and finishing with conclusion ?
No, four paragraphs are fine, you don’t have to have five.
I have attempted ielts multiple times I got my desired score in all modules with 8 in speaking 8.5 in listening 7 in reading but remained 6 or 6.5 in writing instead of 7 every time. I am trying very hard but don’t know where I lack. If I can get help would be appreciated. Thanks
Hi Jaspreet, I understand completely, it is really hard to improve when you don’t know what you’re doing wrong. Our teachers can review your writing and tell you what to change, to start scoring higher – visit our writing correction service page here and learn how you can use it to get Band 7 in writing.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
