Even though globalization affects the world’s economies in a very positive way, its negative side should not be forgotten.  Discuss.
Globalization is such a commonly used term in the  century.  It simply means that the world has become integrated economically, socially, politically and culturally through the advances of technology, transportation and communication.  It is undeniable that globalization has resulted in both positive and negative effects which must be addressed accordingly.
To begin with, globalization has contributed to the world’s economies in many beneficial ways.  The advances in science and technology have allowed businesses to easily cross over territorial boundary lines. Consequently, companies tend to become more productive and  competitive thereby raising the quality of goods, services and the world’s living standard.

Secondly, several companies from the more developed countries have already ventured to establish foreign operations or branches to take advantage of the low cost of labor in the poorer countries.  This kind of business activity will provide more influx of cash or investment funds into the less developed countries. 
However, one cannot deny the negative effects which  derived from globalization.  One crucial social aspect is the risk and danger of epidemic diseases which can easily be spread as the transportation becomes easier and faster in today’s advanced society.  This is evidenced in the recent birds flu disease which has infected most Asian countries over a short period of time.
As large corporations invest or take over many offshore businesses, a modern form of colonization will also evolve which may pose certain power pressure on the local governments of the less developed countries.  Unemployment rates in the more developed regions such as Europe may also escalate as corporations choose to outsource to the cheaper work force from Asian countries.
In conclusion.  to reiterate that globalization is inevitable and we must urge individuals, companies and governments to use a more balanced approach by taking the appropriate steps to deal with matters relating to the financial or economical gains verses the social, political or ecological concerns of the world.
This essay is too long, 318 words instead of 250-265. Otherwise (except for some minor grammatical errors) it is a very nice work. It covers the task, has the right structure, the paragraphs are coherent and are logically connected by elegantly used linking words, the structure of sentences is fine and so is your vocabulary. Seems worthy of Band 7.5 or 8.
Click here to see more IELTS essays of band 8

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
Tnx a lot
Can i send my essay for review?
Hi Sawraj, yes of course, you’re welcome to send us your essays for review. Please visit this page to learn how to do it.
This is awesome effort.
Stupendous
Hlo may I snd my essay for review
Plzz
Hi Harpreet, to send you essay for correction please visit this page, make a payment and we will send you some easy instructions how to send your task to our teachers.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
