As computers are being used more and more in education, there will be soon no role for teachers in the classroom.
There have been immense advances in technology in most aspects of people’s lives, especially in the field of education. Nowadays, an increasing number of students rely on computers for research and to produce a perfect paper for school purposes. Others have decided to leave the original way of learning and to get knowledge through online schools. These changes in the learning process have brought a special concern regarding the possible decrease of importance of teachers in the classroom.

Some people believe the role of teachers started to fade because computers have been helping some students to progress in their studies quicker compared to studies in an original classroom. For example, in the same classroom, students have different intellectual capacities, thus some would be tied to a slow advance in their studies because of others’ incapability of understanding. In this way, pupils could progress in their acquisition of knowledge at their own pace using computers instead of learning from teachers. 
However, the presence of a teacher is essential for students because the human contact influences them in positive ways. Firstly, students realize that they are not dealing with a machine but with a human being who deserves attention and respect. They also learn the importance of studying in a group and respect for other students, which helps them improve their social skills.
Moreover, teachers are required in the learning process because they acknowledge some students’ deficiencies and help them to solve their problems by repeating the same explanation, giving extra exercises or even suggesting a private tutor. Hence, students can have a better chance of avoiding a failure in a subject.
In conclusion, the role for teachers in the learning process is still very important and it will continue to be such in the future because no machine can replace the human interaction and its consequences.
This is a great essay. Seems worthy of Band 8. No improvements are necessary, keep up the good work!

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
Please sir an essay ..Can we replace teacher with computer please give me
Great opinion,thank you
There I’m 55 years young man from Myanmar. I love to read idea of describe. Here in Myanmar I read ielts easy in Myanmar. So I love to read some origin. Thanks
That’s great to hear Kopwinr, thank you for the feedback!
Great
In my view, the article presents a thought-provoking perspective on the potential of computers replacing teachers in the realm of education. The topic raises intriguing possibilities, highlighting the benefits technology could bring to the learning process. However, while the concept is promising, a balance between technological advancements and human guidance is crucial for effective education.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
