This essay was written on a topic from “Target Band 7” book (page 54, reprinted with permission).
You should spend about 40 minutes on this task
Some people say that the education system is the only critical factor in the development of a country. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
Write at least 250 words
Education plays an imperative role in the overall progression of a country. Many people may heavily rely on quality education as preparation for real life employment and experiences. However, there are other factors that are needed to propel a country towards success.
We must acknowledge the way the education system of a country prepares most individuals by equipping them with various skills. Prior to gaining a qualification to practice certain professions such as teaching, nursing or accounting, it is necessary for the individuals to undergo rigorous training. Certificate and diploma programs as well as university degrees are good examples of that. Some graduates may even choose to pursue further studies to attain certain requirements to be able to practice their chosen profession.
The education system is undoubtedly important in preparing individuals to take on roles leading to the development of a country. However, it seems that producing graduates alone isn’t a guarantee of the advancement of a country. There are other factors that should come into play, and motivation of individuals is one. Without motivation, people may lose track of what they intend to do to contribute to the improvement of a country.  drives people to achieve and maximize their potentials, because they are determined to get better at many aspects of their life, eventually yielding improvement for their entire country.
Furthermore, the availability of natural resources and job opportunities may also affect the growth of a national economy. Innovations of many individuals require raw materials, and should the country be able to mine these, their production and perhaps even export may help in stabilizing the local market. Finally, it is also important that the availability of employment is aligned with the skills of individuals applying for the positions. Giving skilled people the opportunity to apply their knowledge and experience in their profession makes them more productive, which contributes to GDP growth.
In conclusion, education continues to play a pivotal role in the development of a country. However, other important factors should play a role in order to achieve steady and continuous progress.
This response adequately addresses the task prompt. The writer’s viewpoint is clear throughout the essay. Each paragraph has its role and they are used effectively to organise ideas and information. The coherence and advanced vocabulary help the writer to create an impression of a skilled, fluent English user. Good control of grammar and punctuation is evident. This essay could achieve Band 8 in IELTS.
