Many people believe that international tourism is a bad thing for their countries. What are the reasons for this? What can be done to change this negative attitude towards international tourism?
Many individuals think that foreign tourism brings negative effects to their countries. There are several reasons for such negative attitude towards international travelers. However, a couple of solutions could be adopted to handle this situation, as will now be discussed.
International tourists are often criticized for their contribution to the environmental degradation. It has continuously been noticed that they throw rubbish in their surroundings irresponsibly, which increases the amount of litter everywhere, despite all attempts to reduce waste produced by the local community. This contributes to water, air and soil contamination.
Furthermore, foreign tourism has a harmful influence on traditional customs and indigenous practices of host countries because many tourists are careless and insensitive  the emotions and feelings of local residents. For instance, in India, some foreign travelers wear inappropriate clothes or expose too much of skin when they visit sacred places, which leads to some negative attitude and  the local public.
However, this situation can be improved  different solutions which could be handled by the government. The government should explain the benefits of international tourism which contributes to the development of local . They not only spend money in shops and restaurants but also create jobs in service industries, and this aspect could be publicized. Additionally, the government should increase the awareness among the foreigners through different media such as roadside billboards and advertisements, and tourists should be encouraged to get rid of rubbish correctly.
In conclusion, the inhospitable feeling that the local people have for international tourists can be explained in many ways. However, in my opinion, the government’s involvement is essential to change the negative attitude by citing various advantages of international tourism to their country and raising awareness among tourists in order to protect local habitats.
This essay covers the entire task topic by exploring both reasons for negative attitude towards international tourism and some possible actions to change it. The writer explains why locals may resent international tourists and suggests what steps can be taken to transform the way people feel about foreigners in their country. The information is well-organised by the use of paragraphing, and the writer moves from one idea to the next effortlessly, with the help of linking words. A wide range of vocabulary is used, including less common words such as “degradation”,”inhospitable”, “habitat”, “awareness” and “sacred”. Instances of inaccurate word choice are rare, and even these slips don’t cause difficulty for the reader. Overall, this looks like a Band 8 essay.
