Financial education should be a mandatory component of the school program. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?
It is an obvious fact that financial aspects are a major part of the daily life, as an adult and even as a young individual. Each and every one of us has to make financial decisions concerning recreation, health, education and more. The question is whether to start with financial education as part of school program or to postpone it for a later stage in life.
To begin with, being able to understand the value of money, the way the economic system works and to interpret financial news and its implications is a virtue. Without this virtue, an individual, even a young one, might suffer to some extent. For , a child who doesn’t understand the concept of money might find it more difficult to  choosing only one present out of more possible ones.
In addition, many adults are lacking capability of financial analysis. Quite often, the reason can be the lack of sound foundations or insecurity when it comes to financial terms and concepts. Starting from an early age, building a strong background, can very likely prevent such situation.

However, financial education necessarily involves quantifying and setting prices and value for services and goods. It can easily turn young people into cynical human beings who lack emotion. Furthermore, a tendency to self-concentration and egoism might rise when one  measuring everything from a profit-making perspective.
In conclusion, financial education has both pros and cons. In my opinion, the advantages are more significant than the disadvantages, making financial education an advisable component of the school program. The disadvantages should be thought of as a certain price that young people have to pay due to the characteristics of the world that we live in.
This is a wonderful essay. It covers the task, is correctly structured, the paragraphs are logically connected, the structure of sentences shows excellent command of the English language. The vocabulary is fine and both spelling and grammar are very good. See comments underlined in blue for some minor corrections. Overall, looks like a Band 7.5 – Band 8 essay.

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
How could anyone disagree with the idea that financial education should be mandatory in every school environment. Until every parent alive commits to teaching their children about money, it must be taught in schools.
I agree with that, because little things (especially implemented in childhood) make big difference. The same is true for the finance.
My understanding of this question is, education at the school level should be given by paying fees. Is this correct?
The question is NOT about whether or not parents should pay to send their children to school. The question is about whether what the kids learn at school should include the subject of financial education, teaching them how to manage money. Some people say this should be taught at school and others believe this subject can be learnt later in life.
Hi can you provide me the blueprint of the 8 band essay structure ?
Hi Pretty – under a list of essay samples on this page there is an explanation how to write a Band 8 essay.
What does Band 8 mean?
Hi Jin,
In the IELTS test essays are assessed according to 4 criteria: Task achievement, Coherence and cohesion, Lexical resource, and Grammatical range and accuracy. A Band 8 essay should show the following characteristics:
Task achievement
– sufficiently addresses all parts of the task
– presents a well-developed response to the question with relevant, extended and supported ideas
Coherence and cohesion
– sequences information and ideas logically
– manages all aspects of cohesion well
– uses paragraphing sufficiently and appropriately
Lexical resource
– uses a wide range of vocabulary fluently and flexibly to convey precise meanings
– skillfully uses uncommon lexical items but there may be occasional inaccuracies in word choice and collocation
– produces rare errors in spelling and/or word formation 
Grammatical range and accuracy
– uses a wide range of structures
– the majority of sentences are error-free
– makes only very occasional errors or inappropriacies
Awesome essay
Is that necessary to write disadvantage here whether my opinion is  with advantage
When you discuss both sides of the argument it makes your essay appear more objective and makes a better impression on the examiner.
It didn’t have a proper thesis statement.
What makes you say that? What in your opinion should the writer have done differently, can you give us an example?
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
