In some countries children have very strict rules of behavior, in other countries they are allowed to do almost anything they like. To what extent should children have to follow rules?

The extent to which children have to follow rules is in itself a very complex issue, since children across the world grow up in very different cultures. In  for example, children are expected to be very submissive to their parents as well as other adults around them. This, however, is not the case with the Western countries of the world where children follow the motto ‘Thou shalt do what thou wilt’ as promoted by celebrities and rock stars. I believe that following strict rules has both advantages  serious drawbacks as discussed below.
Firstly, strict rules of behavior create responsible and respectful children who in turn mature into respectful adults. This forms a stable society which is virtually free from negative trends such as prostitution and drug abuse. Secondly, if children do not follow strict rules of behavior, they may get out of hand and become work-shy and indolent. This may then create a burden on the society since the government has to find ways to cater for these social ills.

However, forcing children to follow strict rules of behavior doesn’t always yield positive results  as discussed above, most of the time it backfires and works against society. For example, teenagers are more likely to do the opposite of what they’re told to do simply because they want to be independent. Children should also have rights to exercise their free will and develop their own pattern of behaviors. Imposing strict rules may simply destroy the individuality of children.
At the end of the day, it is clear that children should be guided by rules, but these rules should not be imposed on them because as human beings, they need to have room to develop their own traits of character and adopt a behavioral pattern of their own.
This essay is too long (309 words instead of advised 250-265). Otherwise this work is a very good one; it covers the task, your position is clear, the ideas are well-organized, expressed, explained and supported. The sentences show a wide range of language structures, cohesive devices and your grammar is fine. Overall, this seems to be a band 7.5 or higher essay.
Click here to see more IELTS essays of band 8

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
Thnks ❣❣❣❣
Good job, please is it going to count against me if I write over 300 words in  my essay?
Hi Ujay, there is no direct penalty if you write more than 300 words in your essay. The only thing that can work against you is time – you are likely to spend more time writing a longer essay and it will leave less time for proofreading and checking it, and also for writing task 1. Another aspect of it is, the more you write, the more room for errors you create. But if you can write fairly fast and you have sound grammar and spelling skills, and you can finish a 300-word essay including proofreading within 40 minutes, then I would say go for it.
Well could anyone please tell me some tips about how I could write the best essay?
Please Rate My Essay(Thank you)
In my opinion it is crucial that school program to include free community service.  Many may argue that this kind of activity might result in lower down the education quality in the school and student will lose interest in studies. I strongly agree with inclusive of community service activity as a part of school program. It will shape the students and change the perspective of how students look towards the community which they live in.
By adding community service program in school, its open their way to understand more about their society, real life problems and helps being matured. By doing more charitable work, students will understand the real meaning of life and will be more compassionate and will gain real life experience.
On the contrary, people will debate that this kind of activity in school might deprived students focus from education and elude their interest in the study and will be wastage of energy, time for the school and the students.
In the conclusion, Community serving practice is a great lesson for the students which will not get to read in the syllabus but to be experience in the real field. Only education will not help building real life and career but the overall personality will help for the successful peaceful life. As per 14th Dalai lama, ’’This planet needs more peacemakers, not successful people”. By teaching basic things from the initial stage in the school yields good performance in real life and it will be better community to live in the future.
Hi Lola, to get this essay checked, please submit it via our writing correction service – click here to find out how to do that.
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
