Even though globalization affects the world’s economies in a positive way, its negative side should not be forgotten. Discuss.
In the present age, globalization is playing an increasingly important role in our lives. But in the meantime whether it is a blessing or a curse has sparked a heated debate. Some people argue that globalization has a fundamentally beneficial influence on our lives, while many others contend that it has a detrimental effect as well.
A convincing argument can be made about globalization not only playing a pivotal role in the development of technology and economy, but also promoting the cultural exchange between different countries. To start with, it is the globalization that impelled many  to become international groups, thereby making a contribution to the local technology and employment. Specifically, when a multinational group  a factory in a developing country, the new equipment, the new management skills and the job vacancies are all in the best interest of the local society. Moreover, people worldwide can get to know each other better through globalization. It is easy to see that more and more Hollywood blockbusters show cultures different from American, some recent examples are ‘Kungfu Panda’ and ‘The Mummy’.

Admittedly, the profit driven side of globalization has severely affected young people. Today, in the metropolises in different countries, it is very common to see teenagers wearing NIKE T-shirts and Adidas footwear, playing Hip-Hop music on Apple iPods and eating at KFC. The culture that took a thousand years to form just seems similar in these cities; it seems as though you can only distinguish them by their language. Meanwhile, in some developing countries, sweat workshops are always a concerning issue. For instance, reports show that some teenagers employed by NIKE’s contractors work in smelly factories over 14 hours a day, but are only paid fifty cents per hour.
To sum up, I would concede that globalization does come with some adverse effects. Despite that fact, benefits created by it far outweigh the disadvantages. Overall, I am convinced that we should further promote globalization and meanwhile the local government should take measures to combat culture assimilation and sweat workshops. 
This essay is extremely long (338 words instead of the advised 250-265). It has a sound structure, your position is clearly expressed, the information is well-organized, and structure-wise the sentences are fine. The vocabulary is impressive and there were only a few grammatical errors (see comments underlined in blue). Overall, this seems to be a band 7.5 + essay.
Click here to see more IELTS essays of band 8

						Pingback: IELTS Essay Samples of Band 8 | IELTS-Blog 
Dear Sir/Madam,
You are doing a fantastic job for the students who want to learn the ropes of IELTS examination and methodologies to approach the exam very efficiently. Could you please rate my essay if you have free time?
The world is experiencing a dramatic increase in population causing problems not only for poor, undeveloped countries, but also for industrialism and developing nations. Describe some of the problems that overpopulation cause and suggest at least one possible solution.
Almost all countries in the universe face a remarkable population growth in the recent times especially in the past 10 years.  As a consequence, all nations regardless of their wealth and development are in risk to experience manifold concerns created by over populace.
Some of the significant and thorny issues include provision of basic amenities with other facilities to citizens would become abstruse for a country because of tremendous raise in population. Few recommended practices to efficiently address this critical problem are also highlighted in this order. .
To initialize, overpopulation is one of the major ills that needs to be tackled by a country with utmost sincerity as it causes various problems harshly deteriorating its growth and advancement. For instance, in India, a developing country, the population enhanced from 90 millions in the financial year 2010 to 110 millions in the year 2011 due to which Indian government had to ensure that every citizen receives amenities such as food, shelter, sufficient medical facilities, transport and schooling. In order to achieve this, India has spent nearly 95% of its revenues to the above services alone and therefore it was unable to fund its own industries or new companies thereby yielding a very low growth of 8% against the estimated rate of growth 14% for that year. Even a well developed country like USA could not achieve its planned annual development with laden of more people born minute after minute. In case of poor countries, the conditions will be the worst as they are running out of money for their basic amenities, they will suffer a lot.
Moreover, a country has to provide pollution free environment and job opportunities to the people to maintain the human development index.  Particularly, in developing countries like South Africa, the competition for acquiring employment will be rough and tough and eventually unemployment will increase which in turn harm the growth dragging it from worse to worst level. In addition, the wastes and garbage produced by people are to be properly handled by the government in order to avoid environmental pollution which again needs more funds and it will be impossible for non-developed countries to allocate finance to this task. Hence, it is clear that government has to strive hard to buckle down to offer good environment with employment chances to its entire people.
As far as the solutions are concerned, some of the best strategies to deal with this issue are to encourage the people who undertake family planning operations after their second child besides diminishing the social and governmental benefits to the people having many children. For example, people who take family planning should be applauded with many benefits such as some cash prizes, waiver in transportation through government buses and free education to their children. Though this tactic costs an arm and a leg to the government initially, it would an effective way for a long-run. Secondly, with the advent of new scheme, people who will give more births to children will not be entitled to enjoy governmental benefits like free medical facilities to their older family members, educational scholarship for first graduate of their family or the assistance should be reduced to some extent. Furthermore, it is also expected to receive excellent cooperation from its citizens to produce fruitful outcomes of this plan, because a good government is unable to succeed without responsible people paddling their own canoes. Thus, all these approaches are recommended to prevent the disaster rather than combat the adverse effects once they rose as prevention is always better than cure. 
Regards
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Name * 
Email * 
Website 
Comment * 
 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 


Latest Posts
IELTS Calculators
IELTS Resources
All Rights Reserved. 2005 - 2024, IELTS-Blog.com

NOTE: IELTS is jointly managed by the University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations (Cambridge ESOL), British Council and IDP: IELTS Australia. This website does NOT represent or affiliated with any of the IELTS Test Partners. The official IELTS website is www.ielts.org.
