Many people believe that reducing speed limits is the best option for road safety improvement. Do you think there are other measures that could be put in place? What are the advantages and disadvantages of this?
One of the most conspicuous trends of today’s world is a colossal surge in the number of  vehicle accidents  cars, trucks and buses, all over the , be it in impoverished or developed nations. There is a wide range of factors that . In my opinion, this situation could be remedied, provided some effective measures are taken.
Measures to deal with this soaring concern are many; the most significant  are not remote or complicated but accessible and practicable. The primary one lies in the fact that governments should take a firm stance and apply stringent rules and regulations to lower the speed limit. Secondly, using  electronic devices while driving should be forbidden by law. Finally, an awareness program could be initiated by individuals to educate the public about the catastrophic effects of unsafe roads and the projected enhancements for road safety. Only when convergent efforts from all sectors are ensured, can we expect to see considerable progress in tackling this problem.
There is a deluge of merits for implementation of reduced speed limits. High speed is likely to impose life threatening danger on people crossing the roads, due to the perilous nature of this hazardous speed with danger being an integral part of it. Not only does reducing the speed limits contribute to decreasing daily accidents, but it also raises the standard of driving. Needless to say, all these advantages have a far-reaching impact on pedestrian safety.
There are, however, some pitfalls that can easily overpower the potential benefits of limiting speed. The primary one stems from the fact that slowing the speed could lead to augmenting the daily traffic hours. Besides, it could also delay delivering sick and  patients to hospitals. Hence, it is apparent why some individuals are against changing the standardized level of speed.
From what has been discussed, one can conclude that despite the drawbacks of reducing speed limits, the expected benefits of this measure are indeed far greater.
All the parts of the task have been covered fairly well. The response presents a well‐developed position that addresses all parts of the task prompt with suitable, widely covered and thoroughly supported ideas. The range of vocabulary is adequate for the requirements of task response. There are some mistakes in word choice and grammar. Nevertheless, the essay is up to the mark and is  likely to score Band 8 in IELTS.
