This essay was written on a topic from “Target Band 7” book (page 54, reprinted with permission).
You should spend about 40 minutes on this task
Dieting can change a person’s life for the better or ruin one’s health completely. What is your opinion?
Give reasons for your answer and include examples from your experience.
Write at least 250 words
Some argue that dieting has an extraordinary impact on one’s life, whereas others are of a view that it absolutely adversely affects a person’s health. It cannot be denied that dieting taken to extremes may cause more harm than good, however, in my opinion effective dieting is pivotal for maintaining good health and keeping a more attractive body shape.
First of all, the possibility of increasing level of physical health lies with incorporating proper dieting in our lives. It is reasonable to suggest that dieting is effective for controlling our body weight within an ideal range in order to achieve the normal score of body mass index (BMI), which is essential for preventing us from  overweight or obese. As a result, the risk of suffering an  illness will be reduced. A recent research concluded that dieting is one of the most effective measures to cut down one’s body weight among the obese group, and it helps to improve their medical condition indirectly.
Moreover, dieting is crucial for keeping ideal body features regardless of gender and age. A fit and presentable body outlook absolutely boosts up one’s  level in his or her social life, not to mention professions that require keeping one’s body in an attractive physical shape. For example, dieting is adopted as a popular way for reducing weight among actors and actresses. A recent article reported that an actress who successfully regained her slim body after a period of dieting was offered an excellent job opportunity in the Hollywood film industry. 
In conclusion, in my opinion dieting has a positive influence on one’s life in terms of maintaining a profound level of health and keeping a more attractive body outlook.
The writer’s opinion is very clear from the start and throughout the entire essay. Paragraphing is used effectively to organise ideas and information. The use of advanced vocabulary enables accuracy of expression and highlights flexibility. Overall, the control of grammar and punctuation is good, with only a few errors made. The essay is a good example of an IELTS Band 8 work.
